# ERCOTBlocktimes
Looking at ERCOT pricing and blocktime data to estimate Texas on-grid hashrate

In the summer of 2021, China banned bitcoin mining, forcing bitcoin miners in China to look for new homes for their hashrate. The United States became an attractive destination for miners, due to a combination of strong property rights, good state regulations, and low industrial power prices. Within the United States, Texas, with its island grid, excess energy, deregulated energy market and pro-business regulatory climate was a particularly attractive locale within the United States.

Within ERCOT, power producers and consumers participate in robust real time and day-ahead markets at dozens of differnet hubs and load zones. For the purposes of this analysis, I looked at ERCOT's Hub Average price, indicative of system-wide average prices.

By looking at bitcoin network blocktimes, I seek to estimate whether prices in ERCOT have any impact on blocktimes. If miners did not respond to differences in electricity prices, then the average number of blocks per hour when prices were high and prices were low would be the same. Similarly, I expect that there is not a linear relationship between price and hashrate lost - there is likely some number, in this analysis I estimate $200/MWH, that below this number miners chose to contine to operate, and above this number miners power down. To a rational miner, once their marginal costs exceed marginal revenue, they should shut down. Whether their marginal cost is $200 or $2,000 should not matter to their decision to power down.

This analysis finds that for the entire dataset, from May 1st 2022 to September 31st 2022, on average there were 6.03 blocks found per hour. When ERCOT average hub prices were below $200/MWH, on average 6.06 blocks were found, or marginally higher than the 6.03 average across the summer. When electricity prices were above $200/MWH, only 5.30 blocks were found per hour, on average. This implies that 12.4% of the network drops off when prices increase above $200/MWH (1-(5.3/6.06)).

This is a relatively simple analysis. There are a number of refinements that could be made to make this data more accurate. To start, this uses average prices across ERCOT. Many miners have situated themselves geographically to take advantage of transmission congestion - where generation assets are constrained by the transmission on the grid that prevent low-priced electrons from making it to high-priced points. A miner positioned at a point with limited transmission capacity may be able to enjoy low priced power and thus continue to mine despite high prices elsewhere in ERCOT. Similarly, this analysis could overestimate the share of hashpower operating on-grid in Texas. Any instance where power prices were elevated not just in Texas but also in neighboring grids and neighboring states shut down. For example, high power prices driven by high air conditioning demand in Texas may also see high power prices driven by high air conditioning demand in Oklahoma, causing Oklahoma-based on-grid miners to power off. In this analysis, such an event would count all miners affected, overstating the importance of Texas.

Furthermore, this analysis is only able to estimate on-grid, in front of the meeter bitcoin mining hashrate. Any miner mining off-grid, for example using waste gas, would be unaffected by high electricity prices. Similarly, miners with fixed-price behind-the-meter arrangements with power producers may be insulated from market pricing.

This analysis is intended to be a starting point, rather than a definative result, and provides a bottoms-up data-focused alternative to relying on pool data and miner surveys, each of which have their own problems.

Some of this code was written by OpenAI's chatGPT tool.